hey everyone laszlo Montgomery once
again following right on the heels of
that part 1episode on the life of Sir
Edmund Trelawny back house we got as far
as the publication of back house and
Bland's groundbreaking book china under
the Empress Dowager it was a smashing
success and back house was able to
bounce back from all his acute financial
difficulties his father also lined up a
position for him at John Brown limited
maker of fine armor-plated ships of war
on the heels of this book on the Empress
Dowager discussion with bland was
already underway for an encore this book
would be published in nineteen fourteen
and as mentioned in the last episode the
book was entitled animals and memoirs of
the court of peking and it's here where
we will pick up today on the heels of
this book on the Empress Dowager
discussion with bland was already
underway for an encore this book would
be published in nineteen fourteen and
was entitled annals and memoirs of the
court of peking and it's here where we
will pick up today it's not the spring
of nineteen eleven and Morrison have
been traveling all this time he was out
of Beijing when the book came out as I
mentioned dr. Morrison was very
possessive of Backhouse he didn't pay
him a salary but he provided for him in
other ways Backhouse hated how Morrison
bullied him all the time like he did and
almost without fail Backhouse cave to
his will while Morrison was out of town
Backhouse had switched his loyalties to
bland and to French but once Morrison
was back in Beijing and began to lean on
back house in the way that he did
Backhouse fell into line by the end of
nineteen eleven Backhouse was back
working with Morris and just like in the
old days but they both despised each
other especially from this point forward
by the summer of nineteen twelve
Backhouse will begin carefully planning
his escape from Morrison's hold on him
and Morrison didn't stop there he went
after bland too he drove the biggest
wedge possible between back house and
bland Morrison's vendetta against bland
knew no bounds it wasn't enough just to
beat him
in the contest of who would control
Edmund Backhouse he also had to destroy
bland professionally and personally and
to rain on Blandon backhouses parade
Morrison began dissing the book and
passing the word around this diary that
the book was based on was a fraud
Morrison was absolutely livid that back
house had worked so closely with him all
these years and had kept this diary a
secret there had to be a reason Morrison
made it his business to wreck this book
destroy its credibility by attacking the
authenticity of this diary if there was
one way to destroy bland and teach
Backhouse a lesson about going behind
his back the fastest route was in using
his megaphone to cast doubt on the
credibility of this book Hyneman the
publisher got word as early as late
nineteen ten that Morrison was going
around spreading rumors about the jin
shan diary bland was outraged and wrote
to Backhouse saying that they were under
attack by Morrison urging him to
categorically deny all the points that
Morrison had mentioned even though it
was just a hunch anything that came from
Morrison carried a lot of weight so
bland felt the credibility of this diary
and to be saved Morrison well when
confronted of course denied everything
and said he wasn't going around saying
anything about this diary being a
forgery but he was at the end of
nineteen eleven that's a sheet book was
reviewed favorably by w.e Leveson of the
scholarly journal of the royal asiatic
society Levison was quite close to bland
and gave it a nice review effect Leveson
talked up bland and hardly even
mentioned backhouses name or
contribution Backhouse though he had
argued to distance himself from the book
felt insulted by this time back house
was almost totally back orbiting
Morrison's world exclusively and with
that the whispers and rumors about the
authenticity of the jin shan diary
ceased for the time being morrison got
his way but Morrison is going to make a
strategic mistake after the end came
the man shoes on double ten-day 1911
Morrison began to see your insurer KY as
the new power center in China and saw in
him a man worthy of Morris and support
and admiration so George Ernest Morrison
began to turn away from his brilliant
journalism career and instead became
part of you ensure Kai's gang supporting
him in every way he could but in July
1913 after yen shirk I showed his true
colors and quashed the new China
movement and turned on the KMT morrison
realized he goofed bland had always said
you and shirk I was a snake and totally
unworthy to rule but Morrison a strong
believer in sun yat-sen and all he stood
for new he backed the wrong horse when
you ain't shirk I began to have royal
and Imperial aspirations also around
this time the collaboration between
bland and back house had produced the
second book this one was sent to the
publishers and in january nineteen
fourteen annals and memoirs of the
courts of peking hit the shelves
interestingly this book was authored by
Backhouse and bland rather than bland
and back house like the sushi book this
book gave an overview of China from the
end of the Ming to the end of the chain
this book was shocking and that despite
1914 sensibilities there was quite a bit
of sex and depravity contained inside
the pages there was so much sex that
back house as publication grew closer
began to freak out about it considering
the times they lived in he feared the
blowback would be terrible and for this
like last time Backhouse began to make a
whole bunch of noise about taking his
name off the book into 1913 Backhouse
had still been working for John Brown in
Beijing out of nowhere in the spring of
that year back house after trying in
vain to arrange a purchase donated a
huge cache of books documents and
manuscripts to oxford's bodley and
library how he got his hands on all
four and a half tons of treasures packed
in 29 crates who knows Backhouse had his
ways of course was most experts in all
aspects of what items were of particular
value China right after the fall the
Ching dynasty was a complete chaos and
there was for many years a free-for-all
to suck up any and all antique treasures
from China's magnificent past a lot of
the Chinese art manuscripts found in
museums and private collections around
the world where snatched up around this
time some of the items Backhouse sent to
the bodley and went as far back as the
northern song during the time of white
zone there were even six volumes of the
massive yung Lu encyclopedia the yola
thought in my duties six volumes only
comprise less than half a percent of the
total work but still it had been thought
that this great work the largest of its
kind had been lost during the reign of
the judging Emperor in July 1913 the
collection donated by Backhouse arrived
in England when scholars there opened up
the crates and began to examine the
contents the shock and awe within the
small world of academics analogous was
off the charts each item was more
incredible than the next Edmund
Backhouse with one single donation had
made Oxford's bought land the greatest
repository of antique Chinese rare books
and manuscripts in all of Europe these
donations he made between 19 13 and 19
22 made Backhouse a hero shortly after
his donation he went back to London for
a while basked and a little glory
visited his sick father but got no
increase in the allowances father
remitted regularly then for no reason
Backhouse turned heels and went back to
China in December 1913 The Times wrote a
story about Backhouse and what a
brilliant guy he was and all about his
amazing donation to the bodley and
library the writer of the article was
Lionel Giles
son of herbert Giles who gave us the way
Giles system of romanization both father
and son made great contributions to the
field of synology so Backhouse got all
kinds of shine on him between the two
books authored with bland and the
fabulous donation to Oxford Backhouse
gained a whole lot of respectability he
was loving it and began to fashion
himself as a venerable China scholar
among the honors being heaped on back
house was an offer to teach at King's
College in London the chair and Chinese
Studies was offered to back house but he
was really holding out for the chair at
Oxford that's what he wanted Backhouse
was also fishing for an honorary degree
from Oxford because remember he didn't
finish his degree in left for China
suddenly in 1898 before graduating
leaving behind a mountain of debts to
entice Oxford even more for the chair
and for the honorary degree he notified
the bodley and that he had a second huge
cache of books 76 cases in toto
including an autographed scroll by wang
xi cheer himself you all no doubt recall
wang xi chair from chp episode 96 he was
called China's greatest calligrapher and
lived during the Jin dynasty you might
recall from that episode that
tongue-tied zone considered one of
China's greatest emperors insisted to be
buried in his tomb with a precious copy
of one sheet jerz most famous work the
Lanting ji xu the preface to the poems
collected from the orchid pavilion
Backhouse was hoping that this second
donation would entice the people at
Oxford to offer him that chair and
Chinese Studies but when it was finally
vacated in march of 1915 rather than
offer it to Backhouse they held out and
kept it empty the Great War was raging
in Europe and matters related to filling
the vacant chair of chinese studies at
Oxford were not considered a high
priority no one was paying attention to
this for the time being Edmund Backhouse
to those who knew him was always come
sidered a little strange first of all he
was already a well-known recluse he
never lived amongst the foreigners in
the Beijing foreign legation ghetto he
always lived apart except during the
Boxer Rebellion where he was forced to
flee to the safety of the legation
quarter he was funny he sort of stayed
apart from the Westerners but when
anyone would run into him like turning
on a switch back house turned from being
a reclusive loner to the most charming
polite courteous helpful person anyone
ever met in 1915 back house and his
letters too bland complained constantly
of his declining health and dire poverty
no one ever saw him and he would just
disappear for the longest time but now
those who knew Backhouse believed he was
someone with some serious mental
problems his behavior was very erratic
and he was obviously not someone who
acted like normal people do bland began
to notice this was some alarm despite
all these rumors about backhouses
strange behavior someone who didn't know
Backhouse all that well gave his name to
Sir John Jordan the British minister and
Beijing to see with world war one going
on within a year suddenly there was a
shortage of bombs weapons and ammunition
I know with all the chaos going on in
shine it's hard to believe this but
China was an arms supplier back then one
reason was that warehouses in China were
filled to the brim with all this Russian
and European hardware it was a seller's
market and the Brits were looking to
China to supply a lot of what was needed
on the continent to fight the Germans
the only problem was that it was
technically not legal for China to sell
these arms but Jordan didn't let this
get in his way if they couldn't do it
overtly they do it secretly and their
secret agent to procure these arms from
the Chinese and ship them quietly to
England was none other than Edmund
Backhouse by funneling the purchases
through an agent rather than buying them
directly allow the British to have at
least a fig leaf of deniability if they
got
Oh John Brown limited still had back
house in their employ and their
management were informed by the Foreign
Office that they were using back house
for some clandestine arms purchases and
that this was all hush-hush and no one
should say a thing on jun 2015 15
backhouses career as a secret agent for
the british legation and beijing began
this was quite exciting to a guy like
Backhouse his mission impossible was a
modest one procure 200,000 rifles Jordan
told Backhouse he was totally on his own
the British government couldn't get any
fingerprints at all and whatever deal he
could bring to the table he had to do it
all on his own they would arrange the
financing of course but it was up to
back house to find these arms and get
them shipped to her ever directed Jordan
felt immediate gratification when back
house quickly reported that he had found
150,000 rifles split up among five
locations in China and even better he
said he found a hundred skoda maxim
machine guns Jordan was practically
dancing a jig bad didn't last too long
reality set in soon enough you see
everyone not just the British we're
short on arms yeah the Japanese to
chasing the same supply Backhouse said
he had procured because of the way
everything was set up with Jordan
Backhouse controlled the narrative
completely whatever he said no one could
corroborate it they figured he had a
good class background this respectable
job with well-known armaments firm had
all this acclaim as a scholar both of
his books by now had been published what
was there to doubt all the way into 1915
Backhouse kept reporting his progress
which was agonizingly slow was one
setback after another and all the while
each disappointment was followed by a
new claim from Backhouse that he had a
lead on even more arms available for
procurement the financial negotiations
were excruciating and the British had to
completely trust back house on this in
Chinese there's an old saying that goes
true
baba Juho it means you can trap a fire
with paper the great Benjamin Franklin
put it less obliquely when he said in
Poor Richard's Almanac in 1735 quote
three may keep a secret if two of them
are dead once this huge cache of weapons
back house had arranged were supposedly
laden on board a flotilla of vessels of
course word leaked out and the Russians
went straight to the British and said
hey what's up with those weapons we
heard about well the British had no
choice being caught red-handed but to
come clean suddenly this arms deal
engineered by Backhouse with all the
seemingly unnecessary complications
secrecy broken promises setback after
setback began to get a very sulfurous
odor and then after all the
disappointments and glitches the vessel
supposedly mistakenly entered can't on
instead of the port of Hong Kong and
this entire secret transaction and all
the cargo came under the control of the
Chinese authorities down there at this
point sir john jordan was ready to kill
back house but for now he pushed him
aside and plunged into the abyss to
appeal to you and shirk I directly for a
remedy Lee I'm sure ye handle this on
behalf of the ensure Kai Leon was your
ends finance minister and one of his
closest allies Jordan explained
everything from start to finish about
what he had hoped to do in the end Leon
sure he basically said Backhouse who at
this point in October 1915 Jordan and a
few associates went and tracked back
house down to his dwelling and
practically frog-marched him to liana
sure use office and with everyone in the
same room the truth was revealed Jordan
had been totally duped Backhouse it made
this whole thing up and he never at one
time was ever fully in control of his
deal was Edmund Backhouse a dupe played
by a bunch of opportunistic Chinese
merchants who smelled money was he just
inexperienced and out of his league on a
mish
like this or was he just living in a
fantasy world making all this stuff up
behind a wall of secrecy and wasting
everyone's time money and reputation and
Sir John Jordan after carefully
reviewing the series of events that led
to what became known as the Backhouse
affair came to the solid conclusion that
from start to finish this was all a work
of fiction concocted inside backhouses
head and he had swallowed the story hook
line and sinker all this waste of time
all these meetings and requests made to
London all a sham hugh trevor-roper said
to the Backhouse affair quote the
unnamed Chinese authorities the
provincial governors the rifles and
machine guns so exactly described and
dated the flotilla of ships in the whole
dramatic history of their journey from
hanco to Canton which had kept cipher
clerks busy in peking and london caused
legation officials to be sent to
Shanghai and Hong Kong and commanding
generals to be initiated into profound
secrets which had sent the British
Minister Plenipotentiary to wait on the
president of China ruffled the
diplomatic waters in Tokyo and Petrograd
fetched 2 million pounds from London to
Peking and nearly brought a Japanese
battle cruiser into the South China Sea
which had educated pens in the Foreign
Office and the War Office exercised the
army Council and Lord Kitchener himself
drawn in the personal intervention of
the foreign minister and the Colonial
Secretary been reported to the cabinet
the Prime Minister and the King all this
it now seemed wasn't its substantial
pageant the baseless fabric of a dream
now suddenly dissolved leaving not a rap
behind Jordan had to take a year off to
recuperate from this crushing blow to
his career and personal humiliation he
blamed himself for falling for all of
backhouses hallucinations for obvious
reasons this whole affair was kept low
key and was not well publicized you'd
think back house would be finished in
this town but a funny thing had had
and this was one of those you never know
kind of things in October 1916 the day
Jordan and some other officials came to
backhouses residence to bring him in
front of young Sheree and have that big
old confrontation a man named George
Sylvester Hall was passing by and he saw
this Edmund Backhouse guy with a topmost
guy in Beijing from the British Foreign
Office and other high ranking officials
that he knew of and there they were such
high ups personally calling on his back
house guy he sure must be important all
knew of him from first time they met on
a ship in 1914 so imagine when Hall ran
into Backhouse on october eleventh and
Hall not knowing anything about the
just-concluded Backhouse affair appeared
thrilled beyond words that fate had
delivered Backhouse to him and back
house caught on quite early that this
george hall and his company desperately
needed a guy like him in china hall
aggressively courted back house and
tried to recruit him back house acted
coy but kept fueling the fire letting
hall know how connected he was to the
government and whatever you need it he
could get anything done this was music
to the ears of Hall George Hall was the
China rep for the American banknote
company you probably all handled their
wares at one time or another they are a
new york-based company founded in the
18th century and they make printed money
stock certificates stamps and all kinds
of engraved and printed items was still
around today they were after the same
thing all these railroad and
infrastructure people were after who
were running around China after the fall
of the Ching they were looking for
government contracts ABN wanted
contracts to print government money
stamped bonds whatever they can get so
all figured he made the catch of the
century when he successfully recruited
Edmond back has to be a pitch man for
the American banknote company he would
be paid a two percent commission and all
expenses paid you have to remember he
was this China expert amongst men who
were educated but basically the type
that didn't know anything about China
so Backhouse knew these guys would be
easy meat for him they had back house up
on a pedestal and they were hanging on
his every word by the fall of nineteen
fifteen things in China are going to
take a turn for the worse it was around
this time that you n shirk I started
having all these ideas about becoming
Emperor so things in Beijing we're in a
major state of flux Backhouse cleverly
used the chaos of the times as a perfect
backdrop for his next big deal October
the following year back house announced
he scored a 10-year deal for a B and to
print China's money one big caveat was
of course backhouses calling card was
that total and complete secrecy had to
be maintained at all times no one could
talk or poke their nose around or ask
questions no one at ABN knew about
backhouses arms deal that went to rise
so there was no reason to suspect
anything at this point then while
everyone's hands were still red from all
the high fiving Backhouse announced an
even bigger deal 650 million banknotes
to be ordered by the China government 50
million per year for 13 years like the
last deal not closed by the way total
secrecy had to be maintained back at the
head office in New York you couldn't
believe the euphoria on the strength of
this purchase order signed by President
Lee and Hong and Prime Minister Duan
cheer a you all remembered wan-chi ray
he'll be signing those uh nishihara
loans in another year or so so without a
cent collected Hall was given a raise
and a new title he was a he was a hero
at the head office he was the one who
had found back house and brought him to
the American banknote fold and who had
brought such good fortune to the company
through his magnificent connections in
China Backhouse pocketed 5,600 pounds
Commission in advance plus all his
expenses paid and when he handed in that
expense report I am sure there was
enough padding in there to open up an
upholstery factor
so what happened after that absolutely
nothing there was an excuse for
everything that didn't get followed up
or didn't happen and the reputation of
the China government back in you and
shirk eyes time was such that whatever
excuse you gave no matter how far out
seemed within the realm of possibilities
so Backhouse had a lot of material to
work with Hall tried and tried and tried
to nail back house down but no matter
what's this deal couldn't get executed
Hall appealed the back house saying the
commish was prepaid he meaning Hall had
been given a raise at a promotion just
on the strength of this order he was
looking bad now Backhouse had to do
something and to make matters worse Hall
had been duped by Backhouse all this
time into investing a lot of his
personal funds into all kinds of scams
that didn't pan out unfortunately Paul
had put his complete trust in back house
well Backhouse didn't do anything to
ameliorate the ABN 650 million banknote
order situation except by laying low by
1917 all figured out he'd been had just
like Jordan did there never was any
order Backhouse was on the run now
purposely avoiding him when they did
meet up later in 1917 Backhouse charmed
hall and managed to squirm away without
any damage but on october third 1917
Hall officially severed all official
relations between the American banknote
company and Edmund becca's then on
november eighth nineteen seventeen
Backhouse met hall at the Kyoto hotel
and paid him ten thousand six hundred
and fifty pounds to settle this matter
between them Hall's guilt and
humiliation at ABN devastated him and he
did what he could to salvage his
reputation and cover his company's
losses by 1918 backhouses name around
certain circles was mud his reputation
had been besmirched in all of this
head made its way back to Oxford
Backhouse had gone from a great and
mighty benefactor to a bit of an
embarrassment who they weren't sure what
to do with the chair of chinese studies
at Oxford that back house had seemed a
shoo-in to get was still left vacated it
would stay that way till nineteen twenty
one and when they filled it it wouldn't
be back houses reran sitting in it back
houses father Jonathan died july twenty
seventh nineteen eighteen and being the
oldest he inherited his father's
baronetcy no money came with it but at
least now he was Sir Edmund back house
in 1920 Backhouse caught a big break and
that his one-time sponsor and later
nemesis dr. George Ernest Morrison died
no one had done more to try an unmasked
back house during the past decade than
Morrison now he was gone he had compiled
quite a dossier on back house and plan
to release it so Backhouse dodged that
bullet Morrison had given up a stellar
career at the times to go serve as an
advisor to assure Chi bad career move he
died in Devon and is buried there today
1920 saw another episode in the life of
Backhouse which by the way I haven't
mentioned yet he tell people when he met
them his name was pronounced Backus like
you know the the Greek god Dionysus he
had a dialogue going with the new head
of the bodley and library Arthur collie
first he had earlier made the
sensational claimed that he had secured
the palace edition of the young chung
encyclopedia yung-chun Emperor of course
the hard-working son of the Kangxi
Emperor and the father of Qin long
Backhouse claimed to have ten thousand
volumes of the palace edition of the
encyclopedia commissioned by the young
chung emperor the only problem was it
can never be found collie had done
everything Backhouse asked of him to
secure such a treasure as this but when
everything was supposed to ship and
nothing got Laden on board Backhouse was
appalled and swore to look into this at
one
you know there was most likely no Jung
Jung encyclopedia to begin with but not
to worry while all this was being worked
out back house presents to Kylie another
great treasure 18 valuable manuscripts
that he had already fronted the money
for despite protests Backhouse made the
bodley and cough up the funds to make
good on what he had prepaid Backhouse
was strongly insistent that for this
particular donation he didn't want to
attach his name to it these 18
manuscripts are going to prove a
headache later then right on the heels
of these 18 manuscripts and other
manuscripts Backhouse tried to pass off
he announced the most astounding find of
all he claimed he had within his reach
forty thousand volumes from the famous
palace library this was going to rock
the world of synology even more than
backhouses first donation back house was
more and more taking on a bad smell at
the bodley and for all the troubles that
seemed to flow from him the bog lay and
found themselves often fronting money
and then whatever they were paying for
would never show up and all along
Backhouse would make a big deal all the
time about the importance of secrecy and
insisting no one knew he was in on this
when things were looking grim Backhouse
announced the palace library collection
that he was able to get his hands on was
now 58 thousand volumes and that it was
on its way from gansu the Beijing for
unpacking and sorting more money was
demanded from back house in the bought
land dutifully paid up anxious to get
their hands on such rarities then when
things would reach critical stage
Backhouse would disappear again no one
could find him Edmund back has returned
to china in 1921 and pretty much from
that point on became a recluse living in
his house in the Tartar city his
behavior became more and more erratic
and people who ran into him found him
terribly strange he had given up these
dreams of riches through
entrepreneurship and other means instead
of chasing this lifestyle he planned to
lay low and lived the traditional life
of a
ution scholar in the end he didn't get
the chair at Oxford that went to William
Edwards so he'll instead a scholar who
had achieved some fame for his
translation of the Analects by Confucius
once back house was situated in Beijing
he contacted Cowley with the usual long
list of excuses and complaints about his
help and all the difficulty faced of
course letting Carly know about his
dismal financial situation but too many
things were just not happening and
rumors about backhouses erratic and
unstable behavior by not well known all
the while but everyone was losing hope
at Oxford Backhouse would still say the
palace library was going to happen he
was on it just give him a little more
time or send a little more money
everyone in the know began to talk
amongst themselves and the upshot was
that no one trusted back house anymore
in September 1923 ma whether all went to
the bodley and to investigate the
authenticity of some documents Backhouse
have donated he was highly suspicious of
back house a new of him he began
spreading word around that it was wise
not to trust sir edmund Backhouse the
hose at the bodley and who had been
cooperating with Backhouse began to
panic they had already advanced so much
money to back house for works that never
showed up they began to carry out damage
control not only for their financial
losses but for the embarrassment they
would face for falling victim to back
houses scans then the venerable
sinologist Lionel Giles after giving
these 18 manuscripts donated by
Backhouse a thorough once-over pronounce
them as forgeries the paper the ink the
calligraphy and the content all suspect
the new head of chinese studies at
Oxford Edwards suit he'll studied the
manuscripts as well and concurred with
Giles Backhouse would never forgive
Lionel jails for this and reserve plenty
of venom and vitriol for him later on an
ad hoc committee set up to deal with
damage control agree that the best case
to admit they were taken in by Backhouse
due to the importance of the previous
donations he had made the bought lea
they decided to eat their losses after
they could get no relief from the estate
of sir Jonathan Backhouse a march 24th
1924 Backhouse replied in the usual most
courteous and victorian manor that he
stood by everything he donated that
everything was authentic he denied all
the allegations and his kind away as
possible pulled the bodily into stuff it
and this resulted in a bit of a tussle
between back house in the bodley and two
years later Edwards suit Hill in an
unofficial capacity visited back house
in Beijing should he'll reveal to Kali
that quote Backhouse is believed to be
entirely under the thumb of a Chinese
servant who evidently has some power
over him he sees no one and went out in
a rickshaw if a European comes in sight
he covers his head and face with a
handkerchief he is disposed of his house
in the country and of his carriage and
lives in a corner of his old house his
servant controlling the rest of it
foothill further described Backhouse to
Kali as looking thin impoverished as
Chinese gown threadbare said the guy was
in bad shape and obviously in some
financial straits as far as the 18
manuscripts were concerned Backhouse was
insistent they were still genuine that
was about it as far as back house in the
bodley and we're concerned by 1926 they
parted ways and not amicably I my dad
and I can only say when Backhouse died
not only did the baldly and not write in
a bit they didn't even send flowers
either between the forged 18 manuscripts
and the vast Palace collection that
never happened Backhouse had destroyed
all his credibility as far as the diary
of his Excellency jingshan with Morrison
dead the drumbeat to examine it for
authenticity died down but given all the
recent revelations that mystery was
examined with a little more detail in
scrutiny Lionel Giles had arranged for
the noted Dutch sinologist jjl diving
doc
to study the diary and render an opinion
diven DAC was very respected in his day
so everyone was most anxious for his
opinion no one could have been more
interested than Jo p bland bland had
lived under a cloud of suspicion ever
since Morrison began attacking Jing
shawn's diary in late nineteen ten
imagine Bland's utter relief when not
only dive in dec pronounced the diary
authentic sorel johnson as well
concurred on dive index finding johnston
of course the tutor to pooey portrayed
so well by the late great peter o'toole
in the last emperor bland felt
vindicated and relieved at last this
cloud of suspicion was lifted back house
was oblivious to all this holed up in
his tartar city-dwelling living under
his servant who it appears abused him
and controlled his movements I thought
I'd be able to finish sir edmund off in
this episode but it looks like this is
going to go to three parts i hope you
don't mind we'll pick up next time and
look at the amazing conclusion of the
life of Backhouse he's going to finish
off with a bang and write himself into
the history books or at least into
popular culture so I do hope you won't
give up after two episodes and will
consider coming back for part three this
is once again Lazlo Montgomery signing
off from lovely Claremont California
thanking you sincerely profusely and
humbly for listening and I hope you'll
join me next time for another exciting
episode of the China history podcast